 What happens when you type https://google.com on your browser and hit enter??
 
 The internet is an interconnnection of different servers and databases, these components can be accessed using browsers, applications and other specified components.
 when you type https://google.com on your browser and hit enter, computers and other devices communicate using ip addresses to identify each other on the internet. Since it's complicated for human beings to remember all these numbers, human adaptable domain names are given to each ip addresses, in order for the browser to communincate with the entered website an important technology is used to convert the human adaptable text-based domain names to machine adaptable numeric ip address, this technology is the DNS (Domain Name System). so the browser makes a DNS request to convert the human based text to machine numeric ip address.
The way computers communicate with each other is achieved by the use of the TCP/IP protocol, this protocol are laid down hard fast rules which enable different computers to communicate effectively, the IP protocol is concerned witht the IP address, while the TCP protocol guides how the computer commuicates. both protocols are used together. Read more on TCP/IP at https://www.avast.com/c-what-is-tcp-ip#
The browser first checks it's cache files to see if it has such ip address saved, otherwise it send a request to the Operating System (OS), if the OS also doesn't have the address, a request is sent to the resolver. The resolver is charged with the duty of getting the ip address of the website, the resolver's server is the ISP server and it must know the root server, the root server has information on the top level domain(TLD) systems servers. the root server sits at the top of the DNS hierachy and hence knows all the TLD's like .NET, .COM, .ORG etc.
Since google is part of a .com TLD, the root server directs the resolver to the TLD, the resolver saves the address of the TLD so that it can easily bring it up on such subsequent searches, the .com TLD directs the resolver to the name servers of goggle.com in order to get the ip address, the resolver again saves that information. Name servers can be more than one to aid efficiency, this procedure is achieved by a load balancer. In load balancing different servers are connected to a domain to increase efficiency and reduce the amount of requests which is handled by one server.
The address of google.com is gotten by the resolver and saved into cache for subsequent queries, this information is sent to the OS which in turn returns the information to the browser, both the OS and the browser saves that information in their cache files so as to increase efficiency when a requests to such ip address is again encountered. All this actions happens in milliseconds, if due to network problems, the browser will try to show some gifs to entertain the user, the browser then sends a http request to google.com server.
The servers are protected by a firewall which prevents unauthorised clients from making requests to their servers, if the user's browser is not authorized for this communication an error is encountered.
Using "Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)" ensures that communication between the two computers are encrypted, this encryption ensures that third parties can't access the data transmitted over the internet, when the browser sends the HTTPS resquest, they perform what is called an "ssl handshake", in this handshake the webserver responds with an ssl certificate which contains a public key, this public key gives access to the browser to be able to decrypt the data's transmitted from the server at google.
The web server then gathers contents in it's database and sends it as a reply to the request initiated by the browser in the form of html content, Google has thousands of webpages, instead of having all these pages statically on their database, they make use of a few html templates and a gaint database from which the application server can dynamically update the templates before delivering it to the users.
